All that extra baggage 
Chander Shekhar Vishwakarma
On Wednesday 10 July at 23:32 
Today’s airlines wouldn’t be able to handle yesterday’s trunks 

People have matching luggage these days and it’s all so delicate
 and fashionable no wonder baggage handlers at airports have fun 
breaking it. And I was thinking would the plane even take off if 
the luggage of yesteryear was to make a reappearance. Big, black 
steel trunks with our names stencilled in white paint with a solid
 chunk of a lock rather than today’s toy locks with keys so small
 and frail they bend when used. Those trunks held all our fortune
 as school and college boarders and even the porter at the station 
was hard pressed to carry them. 

The trunks carried clothes, food, books, tuck made with mother’s 
love and were always accompanied by a canvas holdall and that really
 held all. We would unfold it on a train berth so it became a bed 
and invariably one shoe stuffed in the top corner would self convert
 into hard pillows. Holdalls are pure nostalgia. This generation 
has not seen even one. You could put so much into the pouches and
 corners and it had these bold thick leather straps that took some
 doing to hook. Yes indeed, our luggage was robust, not this current
 namby pamby stuff made of ticky tacky and looking just the same. 
One day, like someone had cast an evil spell on them, both black 
trunks and holdalls simply disappeared, never to return. 

By the same token all the families we knew had a small mousy looking 
attache case covered in a brown cloth that normally lay on top of 
the cupboard. It was never used but just lay there gathering dust. 
Perhaps it contained something important, perhaps it was empty but 
every home had at least one…they probably still do. Go on, look up 
at the cupboard. Fathers would go to work with what was called a 
leather file as opposed to a briefcase. It had a handle, opened by 
the flap being unstrapped and had a magical quality because we were 
forbidden from touching it. My grandfather had a portmanteau with 
brass knuckles, the sort they carried onto the Titanic and it took 
four people to carry. 

These days they have the cheek to call their stuff personal luggage.
 Personal luggage was in our time when every scratch, every stain, 
every mark had a story behind it. We didn’t have to check baggage 
tags to recognise our luggage like you see at airport carousels these
 days. Folks picking up a suitcase thinking it is theirs then dolefully 
putting it back. Give me a holdall any day. At least I knew the shoes
 were in it.