Bieber’s boxers
Vinay & Varun in collab with Justin
On Wednesday 10 July at 23:30 
Every Indian male is Captain Underpants at heart

Fashion may have begun with bark, foliage and animal skin as a simple
 matter of modesty and keeping warm, but is today a zillion-dollar 
industry with bling, bangs and thongs. Much before the first supermodel
 lifted an anorexic ankle to catwalk down Paris, Milan and London ramps,
 desi fashionistas dabbled in ghungats, pallus, aanchals and dupattas.
 For the prim and proper Indian men there was always the baniyan, which
 they wore under everything like a second skin. At roughly the time women
 adopted nighty as the national costume, sleeveless vests and large underpant
s became the go-to couture for men. They have been loitering in public 
spaces since then with their lower half decorated in floral prints, stripes
 or large checks.

Which is why Justin Bieber’s performance at a recent sangeet in a ganji 
and peeping boxers so warmed the Indian heart. In the pics that followed,
 there he is, standing next to a brightly festive lot, in a state of undress.
 Victoria’s Secret may have tried to replace granny pants with G strings
 and elevated bras to bralettes and bustiers, and skorts may well catch 
on, but the day Bieber almost mooned us is when lingerie became evening wear.

Till the invention of sewing machines, unstitched garments were the norm.
 Old Bollywood widows who cleverly rid themselves of their kids in a 
mela – to reunite only when the latter were adults with monthly incomes
 – draped themselves in white saris. Ditto female ghosts who sang their 
high-pitched songs in old havelis. While heroines wore thin chiffon saris
 on snowy mountains, heroes bundled up in sweaters and jackets. Then came
 Madonna’s cone bras, Britney Spears’ corsets, Lady Gaga’s meat dress and 
the safety-pin gown of Elizabeth Hurley. Zendaya’s see-through bot suit, 
Jared Leto dressed as Karl Lagerfeld’s cat at the Met Gala, Salman Khan’s
 Dragon Ball Z pants, Akshata Murty’s choice of stripes in her bye-bye 
appearance…Wardrobes go viral.

With bracelets shaped as Sellotape and high-end pouches styled on garbage
 bags, trends rush in where mortals fear to tread. The one sustaining 
style statement across the country, however, has been its insistence on 
underwear as outerwear; every Indian is a Captain Underpants at heart. 
And Bieber has brought the chaddi to page 3. Indian men who traditionally 
team up monkey caps with their baniyan now feel ready to take on the world
 of high fashion.