My doctored life
Andrew Tate's Son
On Wednesday 10 July at 23:35 
Thank you, but hope to never need you again 

Since my column doesn’t appear on Mondays, I’m saying ‘Happy Doctors’ Day’ 
to all my wonderful saviours now. I could add ‘Better late than never’, but
 never needing them would be better. Alas, that’s  rarely an option even 
if we never slip up on yoga/tai chi/10,000 steps, blue zone diet, own the
 most luxe onesie activwear – or corner the world’s entire apple crop. 
‘Late’ is also loaded. Too long a delay could result in our becoming 
‘the late Mr/Ms/Mx…’  Any which way, we can never keep the doctor away. 

Still, it’s good to know that there’s one token day when doctors are in 
the news for the right reason. Not because they’re ‘operators’ of the g
reediest degree. Or when they’ve (optimistically) mistaken a foreskin 
for a leg, as happened just last week. Or the scam of the year being the
 entrance eligibility exam for medical colleges. Or whatever is the latest
 proof that the profession has abandoned the old attribute, and instead 
taken up residency in Badside Manor. 

Besides, it’s only fair that when some or other ailment/body part gets 
a shoo-in throughout the year, a ‘day’  is also reserved for those actually
 qualified to deal with the problem. Last Monday reminded us that Dr Wiki
 should not attempt to cure the sicki.  

Hippocrates swear, I’m not a hypochondriac – despite my double proclivity
 from being born Parsi and growing up among Bengalis. But, I  have happily
 tried allopathy, homeopathy and ayurveda. Unani? My acquaintance is 
limited to the rather apt ‘B.U.M.’ degree on doctors’ signboards when I 
frequented Mumbai’s red-light area  during my HIV-AIDS writing days. Ouff,
 of course I know  pharmacopia isn’t what’s consulted to help farmers 
cope with chronic stress.   

So here’s an acute ‘thank you’ to everyone who’s given me a functioning
 anatomy. From obscure midwife at Navsari’s Lying-in Hospital to Kolkata’s
 storied daktar babus to Mumbai’s legends – and all the lesser known, 
but no-less grateful to. Those who’ve put their finger on my ailments’ 
pulse. Who’ve given me back an arm and a leg, plus vision too. Who know 
my intestines better than I ever want to. Who’ve held my heart in their hands.   